README.md, before:

# Human Follower

This work was developed for PUMAS team as a degree work for some National Autonomous University of Mexico. This work is based on leg_finder algorithms and some trackers.

The package contains two ROS nodes, `human_follower` and `leg_finder`, these two ROS node contain some publisher and subscribers very useful.


## Install

The aim of this project is provide some ROS packages to detect a legs person and tracking using laser sensor URG and turtlebot.

-------------------------------

Please make sure that some ROS packages are already installed:

- ros-kinetic-urg-node

If not, you can installed with the follow command: 

> sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-urg-node

After that you can check the ID device of the URG sensor.

> rosrun urg_node getID /dev/ttyACM0

You should see something like that:

`Device at /dev/ttyACM0 has ID H0807228`

In order to not be confused with sensor USB devices set the specific ID for each device configure the system rules. You can find those in:

/etc/udev/rules.d/

You need create a new rule file, or copy the rule file provide on this repository with the next command:

> sudo cp toInstall/80-turtlebot.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/


after that you need restart the udev rules:

> sudo udevadm control --reload-rules && sudo service udev restart && sudo udevadm trigger


Please, unplug the laser sensor and plug-in again. if you type 

> ls /dev/sensor

you should see in terminal something like:

`hokuyo_H1107988`

Please make sure that change the ID_device into `human_follower/launch/human_follower.launch`

In the lines:

`<param name="serial_port" type="string" value="/dev/sensors/$ID_DEVICE" />`

For example:

`<param name="serial_port" type="string" value="/dev/sensors/hokuyo_H1107988" />`



------------------------------------

##Info

### `leg_finder`
 - Publishers:
	 - legs_found
		 - topic_name: `/hri/leg_finder/legs_found`
		 - topic_type: `std_msgs::Bool`
	 - legs_pose
		 - topic_name:  `/hri/leg_finder/leg_poses`
		 - topic_type:  `geometry_msgs::Marker`
	 - legs_hypotesis
		 - topic_name: `/hri/visualization_marker`
		 - topic_type:  `visualization_msgs::Marker`
 - Subscriber:
	 - laser_scan
		 - topic_name:  `/hsrb/base_scan`
		 - topic_type:   `sensor_msgs::LaserScan`
	 - leg_finder_enable
		 - topic_name: `/hri/leg_finder/enable`
		 - topic_type: `std_msds::Bool`


### `human_follower`
 - Publishers:
	 - cmd_velocity
		 - topic_name: `/hsrb/command_velocity`
		 - topic_type: `geometry_msgs::Twist`
	 - head_pose
		 - topic_name: `/manipulation/manip_pln/hd_goto_angles`
		 - topic_type:  `std_msgs::Float32MultiArray`
 - Subscriber:
	 - start_follow 
		 - topic_name: `/hri/human_following/start_follow`
		 - topic_type:  `std_msgs::Bool`
	 - legs_position
		 - topic_name: `/hri/leg_finder/leg_poses`
		 - topic_type: 
	 - potetial_fields_force
		 - topic_name: `/navigation/obs_avoid/pot_fields/rejective_force`
		 - topic_type:

*Note: please note that the complete name of the topics can be different if you are using a launch file for running the `human_folower` and `leg_finder` nodes. 

## Use
A launch file can be used for launch the ROS nodes needed, it is located in `human_follower/launch/human_follower.launch`, once the two ROS nodes are running `leg_finder_node` will be waiting for the topic `/leg_finder/enable` when it occur  the leg_finder will be looking for human legs. 

> rostopic pub /leg_finder/enable std_msgs/Bool "data: true" 


**You should see a marker in Rviz.**
`/hri/visualization_marker`


The `/leg_finder/legs_found` topic will be published when human legs were found whit a `true` value, otherwise the topic will be published with a `false` value when the human legs are lost.

Once you have received the topic that legs were found, you need publish the topic `/human_following/start_follow` with a `True` value for enable the robot movement. 

> rostopic pub /human_following/start_follow std_msgs/Bool "data: true" 

For **stop** human tracking you need publish it once again with a `False` value.

> rostopic pub /human_following/start_follow std_msgs/Bool "data: false"

Commit message:

Correct: Could not open serial Hokuyo

README.md, after:

# Human Follower

This work was developed for PUMAS team as a degree work for some National Autonomous University of Mexico. This work is based on leg_finder algorithms and some trackers.

The package contains two ROS nodes, `human_follower` and `leg_finder`, these two ROS node contain some publisher and subscribers very useful.


## Install

The aim of this project is provide some ROS packages to detect a legs person and tracking using laser sensor URG and turtlebot.

-------------------------------

Please make sure that some ROS packages are already installed:

- ros-kinetic-urg-node

If not, you can installed with the follow command: 

> sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-urg-node

After that you can check the ID device of the URG sensor.

> rosrun urg_node getID /dev/ttyACM0

You should see something like that:

`Device at /dev/ttyACM0 has ID H0807228`

If you see:

`Could not open serial Hokuyo`

Then enter:

> sudo adduser <YOUR_USERNAME> dialout

and log out and log back in.

In order to not be confused with sensor USB devices set the specific ID for each device configure the system rules. You can find those in:

/etc/udev/rules.d/

You need create a new rule file, or copy the rule file provide on this repository with the next command:

> sudo cp toInstall/80-turtlebot.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/


after that you need restart the udev rules:

> sudo udevadm control --reload-rules && sudo service udev restart && sudo udevadm trigger


Please, unplug the laser sensor and plug-in again. if you type 

> ls /dev/sensor

you should see in terminal something like:

`hokuyo_H1107988`

Please make sure that change the ID_device into `human_follower/launch/human_follower.launch`

In the lines:

`<param name="serial_port" type="string" value="/dev/sensors/$ID_DEVICE" />`

For example:

`<param name="serial_port" type="string" value="/dev/sensors/hokuyo_H1107988" />`



------------------------------------

##Info

### `leg_finder`
 - Publishers:
	 - legs_found
		 - topic_name: `/hri/leg_finder/legs_found`
		 - topic_type: `std_msgs::Bool`
	 - legs_pose
		 - topic_name:  `/hri/leg_finder/leg_poses`
		 - topic_type:  `geometry_msgs::Marker`
	 - legs_hypotesis
		 - topic_name: `/hri/visualization_marker`
		 - topic_type:  `visualization_msgs::Marker`
 - Subscriber:
	 - laser_scan
		 - topic_name:  `/hsrb/base_scan`
		 - topic_type:   `sensor_msgs::LaserScan`
	 - leg_finder_enable
		 - topic_name: `/hri/leg_finder/enable`
		 - topic_type: `std_msds::Bool`


### `human_follower`
 - Publishers:
	 - cmd_velocity
		 - topic_name: `/hsrb/command_velocity`
		 - topic_type: `geometry_msgs::Twist`
	 - head_pose
		 - topic_name: `/manipulation/manip_pln/hd_goto_angles`
		 - topic_type:  `std_msgs::Float32MultiArray`
 - Subscriber:
	 - start_follow 
		 - topic_name: `/hri/human_following/start_follow`
		 - topic_type:  `std_msgs::Bool`
	 - legs_position
		 - topic_name: `/hri/leg_finder/leg_poses`
		 - topic_type: 
	 - potetial_fields_force
		 - topic_name: `/navigation/obs_avoid/pot_fields/rejective_force`
		 - topic_type:

*Note: please note that the complete name of the topics can be different if you are using a launch file for running the `human_folower` and `leg_finder` nodes. 

## Use
A launch file can be used for launch the ROS nodes needed, it is located in `human_follower/launch/human_follower.launch`, once the two ROS nodes are running `leg_finder_node` will be waiting for the topic `/leg_finder/enable` when it occur  the leg_finder will be looking for human legs. 

> rostopic pub /leg_finder/enable std_msgs/Bool "data: true" 


**You should see a marker in Rviz.**
`/hri/visualization_marker`


The `/leg_finder/legs_found` topic will be published when human legs were found whit a `true` value, otherwise the topic will be published with a `false` value when the human legs are lost.

Once you have received the topic that legs were found, you need publish the topic `/human_following/start_follow` with a `True` value for enable the robot movement. 

> rostopic pub /human_following/start_follow std_msgs/Bool "data: true" 

For **stop** human tracking you need publish it once again with a `False` value.

> rostopic pub /human_following/start_follow std_msgs/Bool "data: false"
